Update getting-started guides to use operator by default (#5564)
projectcalico/calico: calico/getting-started/kubernetes/installation/config-options.md

---
title: Customize Calico configuration
description: Optionally customize Calico prior to installation.
canonical_url: '/getting-started/kubernetes/installation/config-options'
---

### Big picture

Perform common customizations of a {{site.prodname}} installation.

### Concepts

#### {{site.prodname}} operator

{{site.prodname}} is installed by an operator which manages the installation, upgrade, and general lifecycle of a {{site.prodname}} cluster. The operator is
installed directly on the cluster as a Deployment, and is configured through one or more custom Kubernetes API resources.

#### {{site.prodname}} manifests

> {{site.prodname}} can also be installed using raw manifests as an alternative to the operator which contain the necessary resources for installing {{site.prodname}} on each node in your Kubernetes cluster. Using manifests is not recommended as they cannot automatically manage the lifecycle of the {{site.prodname}} as the operator does. However, manifests may be useful for clusters which require highly specific modifications to the underlying Kubernetes resources.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{site.prodname}} can also be installed using raw manifests as an alternative to the operator which contains the necessary resources for installing {{site.prodname}} on each node in your Kubernetes cluster. Using manifests is not recommended as they cannot automatically manage the lifecycle of the {{site.prodname}} as the operator does. However, manifests may be useful for clusters that require highly specific modifications to the underlying Kubernetes resources.

```

### How to

{% tabs %}
  <label:Operator,active:true>
<%

#### About customizing an operator install

> Operator installations read their configuration from a specifc set of Kubernetes APIs. This APIs are installed on the cluster
> as part of `tigera-operator.yaml` in the `operator.tigera.io/v1` API group.
> 
> - [Installation]({{site.baseurl}}/reference/installation/api#operator.tigera.io/v1.Installation): a singleton resource with name "default" that
>   configures common installation parameters for a {{site.prodname}} cluster.
> - [APIServer]({{site.baseurl}}/reference/installation/api#operator.tigera.io/v1.Installation): a singleton resource with name "default" that
>   configures installation of the {{site.prodname}} API server extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Operator installations read their configuration from a specific set of Kubernetes APIs. These APIs are installed on the cluster
as part of `tigera-operator.yaml` in the `operator.tigera.io/v1` API group.

- [Installation]({{site.baseurl}}/reference/installation/api#operator.tigera.io/v1.Installation): a singleton resource with name "default" that
  configures common installation parameters for a {{site.prodname}} cluster.
- [APIServer]({{site.baseurl}}/reference/installation/api#operator.tigera.io/v1.Installation): a singleton resource with name "default" that
  configures installation of the {{site.prodname}} API server extension.
```
